Theme Tune: [Music]
Al: Hello farmers, and welcome to another episode of the harvest season. My name is Al.
Aislinn: And my name is Aslan.
Al: And we are here today to talk about cartridge go games.
Aislinn: Oooh.
Al: Welcome back, Aslan. Spinowile.
Aislinn: Hello, has it been now? I guess it has been a little bit, huh?
Al: For me. I mean, you- you- you- are we? No. We did one. We did one at the beginning of this month. Never mind.
Aislinn: I was like, "Who do we record?" Like, "Lause?"
Aislinn: "Lause?"
Al: That's the one where it'd be no way.
Aislinn: It feels like it's been...
Al: Well, that was it.
Aislinn: Yeah, it feels like it's been an eternity.
Al: What has October being even, right?
Aislinn: I went...
Aislinn: I... Yeah, it's been like, I feel like I've been through hell and back.
Al: A WOOO!
Aislinn: Whoo!
Al: Well, welcome back, Aislin.
Aislinn: What is this?
Al: It's not been a while.
Aislinn: Whoo!
Al: In fact, I've only been on one more episode since that episode.
Al: That's, that's, that's where my brain is at.
Aislinn: Yeah, I love the way that this is starting.
Al: So let's keep going.
Aislinn: This is...
Al: This episode, we are going to talk about why we like farming/caughticle games.
Al: This was a topic suggested by Clem, one of our patrons and my friend.
Al: So we are going to talk about that, thought it was an interesting topic.
Al: I don't think we've ever actually properly discussed
Al: why it is that we like farming/caughticle games.
Al: And I thought a good person to talk about that would be aisling.
Al: So that's why we're here.
Aislinn: I appreciate it.
Al: And before that, we obviously have some news.
Al: And first of all, Aisling, what have you been up to?
Aislinn: I have been up to, now that I finish my work recurrent test and everything, I've been trying
Aislinn: to work my way back into gaming, very, very light though still primarily still slowly working
Aislinn: my way through persona and I read all of all that, that extra information in the slack and
Aislinn: everything about why you may or may not like persona, which was very interesting to read,
Al: - Have you been playing it like a little chunks here and there?
Al: Like really slowly sort of thing.
Aislinn: Yeah, yeah, I primarily have been playing it before bed whenever I have the energy and I have some time before I have to go to sleep, so I'll play it for like 30, 45 minutes.
Aislinn: I've just been doing a lot of dungeon crawling, I guess you could say, is the best way to explain it, or I guess Tartarus progress and whatnot, which makes me very relaxed.
Aislinn: So I've been enjoying it in that sense, which in theory doesn't make sense because it's like strategy thinking because of the Tartarus.
Aislinn: I've been doing that, and then obviously Pokemon Legends EA, and then also, yeah, I won't ramble about that just yet.
Al: Which we're gonna talk about in a minute.
Aislinn: But then also, I've been really, really, really, really itching to get back to Outer Wilds.
Al: Is that the one where it's it's a roguelike and like the sun's exploding or something? Is that that one?
Al: Or is that different? Is that game?
Aislinn: Yes. I love the way that you, I just, I guess, technically it is a roguelike, I guess you could say.
Aislinn: I just, it's like, yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, I, you're not wrong, you're definitely not wrong.
Al: Is that not how you would describe it?
Al: I mean, it was around before like the roguelike term like became in everybody's vernacular, so maybe that's what?
Aislinn: I guess so. I just, because it is technically a roguelike, it does keep repeating itself over and over,
Aislinn: but the thing is it's like, I guess I hesitate to say it.
Aislinn: Because it's time-based rather than, like, a rogue, like, you keep going until, like, you die.
Aislinn: But this while, eh, each, you know, yeah, but, like, it's, like, under your control.
Al: Well, yeah, but you are doing that. You're dying when the sun explodes, right? Like
Aislinn: But I also don't know if it, I haven't finished the game, so I'm, like, it's out of my control.
Aislinn: I have no idea. I'm still working on the game to figure out what is happening.
Al: Yeah, that also feels like an arbitrary restriction to the like I feel like the point of
Al: roguelikes is it's it's it's when you die you go back to the waiting and it doesn't matter
Aislinn: - Mm-hmm.
Al: whether the dying is in your control or not right like to me the point is you are replaying
Al: something and that's the primary kind of way how the game progresses is by replaying things
Al: over and over.
Aislinn: Yeah, I guess I'm like comparing like the thing that I'm struggling with is comparing like Hades
Al: Mhm.
Aislinn: versus Outer Wilds and they feel like two entirely different games in my head, but
Aislinn: I Outer Wilds is like a broke leg. I agree with everything that you just said. I do a
Al: Yeah, I
Al: Mean they don't have to be like combat folk combat focus that's your issue, right?
Aislinn: Yeah, no, that's fair. That's fair bird. I think I think that's what it is in my head
Aislinn: It's combat focused, but obviously it's not that case and outer wilds outer wilds. It's just all exploration
Al: Yeah, no
Aislinn: But yeah, great game. Great game though. I just I want more time to be able to sink in to be able to like fully
Aislinn: Explore everything properly and understand all the research notes and whatnot, but that's like a that's been like
Aislinn: If that came out this year so far, I'll be my like my game of the year outer wilds is amazing so far
Aislinn: Otherwise, that's pretty much it!
Aislinn: It's been it. Yeah, it's been it.
Al: No one seems it seems like looking on the internet nobody seems to actually really consider a roguelike but nobody seems to have a good reason why.
Aislinn: That might be the point of the game!
Aislinn: Potentially, there's a whole- it's- it's- apparently it's such an impactful game for like
Aislinn: me and so-or not for me, for so many of my friends, and my husband included, he already
Aislinn: finished the game, he beat the game, but he loved the game so much as one of the favorite
Aislinn: games of all time now, so much so that he's going to get two tattoos, most likely, of
Aislinn: the- from like the game, so that maybe could be a reason why people don't really have
Aislinn: much of an explanation.
Aislinn: There's some tags on games on Steam that I look at it, and I'm like, "That doesn't
Al: [laughs]
Al: My favorite discussion--
Al: Game genres.
Al: [laughs]
Aislinn: make sense."
Al: Yeah. Yeah, interesting. Yeah, well, all right. Yeah, before we go down that rabbit hole,
Aislinn: But to some people that game genre is correct, but other people, it's like, "Nope, that's
Aislinn: - Not it.
Aislinn: - That could be another podcast topic, maybe.
Aislinn: [laughs]
Aislinn: But anyways, what have you been up to?
Aislinn: - Yeah.
Al: we do not have time for that. Um, I played a, since my last episode, I played a bit more wonderstop.
Al: I forget. Had I been playing that when we did our last episode, I think I'd maybe just started it.
Aislinn: - Woo-hoo!
Aislinn: - I feel like timeline wise you may have just started it.
Aislinn: I think you were, I remember when we last spoke you were,
Aislinn: you were talking about starting it.
Aislinn: I don't think you have started it.
Al: Yeah, it's, yeah, it looks, yeah,
Aislinn: But then for shortly after you did start it.
Al: looking at the show notes from that episode.
Al: I had not started at that point,
Al: but yeah, maybe I mentioned that I was going to.
Al: I have not finished it.
Al: My plan was to try and finish it
Al: before the agency came out.
Al: And I think what I said to Kevin was,
Al: if I don't do that, it's probably because it's not hooked me
Al: as much as it has other people.
Al: I have not finished it.
Al: and I...
Al: Yes, that's basically what it is, right? I don't feel the draw to go back to it, like I do with most games that I kind of like throw loads of time into.
Al: And it's not that it's a bad game, none of the individual elements I dislike.
Al: But there's nothing about the game that's making me go, I really want to experience this.
Al: And I think part of the problem is, this is going to sound silly from someone who runs a podcast about cottagecore games.
Aislinn: Okay. Okay.
Al: It feels slow and rambling.
Al: And the characters are clearly like, you know, trying to do something, and there's clearly a story that is wanting to do.
Al: I get what it's trying to do. I do. I'll tell you what's funny.
Al: So, the night who's one of the first two characters you experience.
Al: But the main character's reaction to that night was exactly my...
Al: reaction just like you know rolling your eyes and going I can't believe I'm having to deal with this idiot and I feel like the game wants me to soften to these characters a little bit and be like oh they actually like there's a reason why you should like them or ever and I've just not felt that.
Aislinn: [laughs]
Aislinn: Uh huh.
Al: And clearly that's where it's going to be going with the story overall but I just yeah I just I'm sitting there playing the going going okay fine right time to go make some more tea.
Al: Like let's continue playing this game it's like I guess I need to go do this sort of thing and I'm not because I'm not like bought into the story as much I think if if I was finding the story more engaging I would probably kind of push through those bits like the team making is very involved and involves a lot of processes that involves a lot of walking over the map and I don't particularly find that
Aislinn: Yeah. Yeah.
Aislinn: Okay, that's fair. That's fair. I will just add on that I do think that even if you didn't
Aislinn: soften, like you were saying to the characters and kind of find like a soft spot for them,
Aislinn: I think you could still enjoy the game because I think the game kind of wants you to feel that way,
Aislinn: but also if you don't, I think you can still enjoy the game.
Aislinn: But I do see where you're going with how you're feeling. If you don't,
Aislinn: like the characters that kind of is half the game, but I see where you're going. I'm trying to
Aislinn: like not ramble too much about it because I also don't know where you are exactly in the game
Al: Yeah, I think I've, I think I've experienced four different characters and I've, all of them have annoyed me in a different way.
Aislinn: at this moment.
Al: Um, yeah, well, that's the thing that's exactly it, but, but, but, but, but I'm get a bit like it's clearly right the game is clearly setting up the fact that she's then going to care about this right. She doesn't care. She doesn't want to be there.
Aislinn: Okay, so you're just Ulta.
Aislinn: Yeah.
Al: she wants to go do something else but she's clearly going
Al: to learn that she actually does need to be there and wants to be there and cares about these people despite trying so hard not to and maybe if I continued playing I would do the same I don't know but like I mean you can't say anything really to react to this because you'll just spoil the game for people who haven't played it.
Aislinn: Uh, uh, yeah.
Aislinn: I know, yeah.
Al: So I understand I understand that frustration but we are probably going to get you and Kevin to do a spoiler episode on it where you can then and obviously I will listen to that whether I finish the game or not.
Aislinn: I'm like, ah.
Aislinn: Oh, yeah.
Aislinn: Okay.
Al: Let's let's I guess put a pin in that and we'll see what comes out of that. Sorry.
Aislinn: Oh, yeah.
Aislinn: I already know in the Kevin dedicated thread, there's going to be some heated words from him.
Aislinn: He's going to be whoosh.
Aislinn: But yeah, I will, I will, I will abstain any additional comments.
Al: Uh...
Aislinn: I will just hold it to myself because I do, I do understand.
Aislinn: I, I will admit that initially playing the game.
Aislinn: I did feel a sense of frustration because I didn't know what to do, but
Aislinn: without spoiling the game, I feel like I could safely say that that was
Aislinn: kind of half the point of the game.
Aislinn: is that it's okay if you don't know what to do.
Al: Yeah, I know. Well, this is the, this is the thing. I get that as a concept, right? And in real life,
Aislinn: That sounds crazy.
Aislinn: It doesn't make the game sound appealing at all, but I, it, it makes the game
Aislinn: all the more appealing.
Al: yes, but also that's not what I want out of playing games. You know, it's, it's, it's one of
Aislinn: Uh-huh.
Aislinn: And that, that is fair.
Aislinn: That is, that is completely valid.
Al: these things where it's like I totally have, you know, grace for people and think that, you know,
Al: mistakes. You make mistakes.
Al: Don't be yourself up, but me. I will be myself up.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Al: It's like grace for you and not for me, and that is, you know, and with games like, I, it's
Al: not like, I'm not trying, I don't want it to sound like I don't want any kind of deep things
Al: in my games. I obviously do. I like deep stuff, some of the best things in Stardew or
Al: like the deep characters
Al: are really really moved me. But that night as the demon hunter, like they're just such stupid characters.
Aislinn: I think I also, to be fair, I also like the silliness, but that's a personal preference.
Al: Yeah. I like, yeah, I like some silliness. There's something particular about this silliness that just makes me go, I think it's because of how sincere they are in their silliness.
Aislinn: And I totally recognize it's personal preference.
Aislinn: Mm-hmm
Al: Yeah, I don't know. It's hard. Anyway. Yeah. Yeah, I'm not saying I won't go back to it. I probably will, but obviously I'm not going to not going to do it just now because I am busy with something else.
Aislinn: Sit on it sit on that see if you continue to progress with the game, you know
Al: But before we get to that, I do want to talk about it, I did buy the Xbox
Al: Alliex, that's the new handheld, the ROG Xbox console, to replace my Steam Deck,
Al: because it's the most Steam decks filling a little bit, it's a little bit old,
Al: so the original Steam Deck and I got the smallest storage, etc, etc, 64 gigabytes, not a lot of gigabytes.
Al: So I bought this because mainly because I really like the fact that it has integration with Game Pass,
Al: it's kind of built in and obviously it's one of the newer faster chips as well.
Al: And thought it would be interesting to use that.
Al: It's obviously not cheap and the part of the problem is I have not played with it very much,
Al: because it came out on the same day as Pokemon did.
Aislinn: I'm K-A-D-E.
Al: So I will probably have more to talk about it in the future.
Al: It's interesting, I like it.
Al: Ergonomics are very nice, it's really nice to hold, it's nicer than the Steam deck to hold, which is good.
Al: It's very chunky, it's very thick, but it does mean that it's battery is better as well.
Al: It does have like a streamed down Windows interface, but let me tell you, they have a lot of bugs with that.
Al: A lot of times, random windows will pop up and you're just like, "Oh, here's this random window,"
Al: and it doesn't fit the scheming at all, the theme and stuff like that.
Al: And then suddenly this random window is window pops up and you're like, "Oh, what are you doing there?"
Aislinn: [laughing]
Al: So it feels a little bit like the hardware was ready, but the software was not quite there yet,
Aislinn: Okay. Okay.
Al: and they're hopefully going to be updating it over the next couple of months, and it will get nicer.
Al: It doesn't have as good sleep and quick resume as the Steam Deck does,
Al: but it's not.
Al: terrible and it seems to hibernate after a certain amount of time of the screen being off which means that it's
Al: standby battery is very good. It's been you know over a week since I put it in the box at
Al: like 90% charge and it's now sitting at 70% so it's it's dropped 20% in a week which is not bad at all
Aislinn: Okay.
Al: um so hopefully I will actually be playing at some point but you know I've got another
Al: 100 hours of Pokémon to play before.
Aislinn: And I'm definitely curious to hear more about what you think about it because I was talking
Aislinn: to a co-worker recently that was contemplating on getting like a handheld gaming system
Aislinn: to bring with him to work for, you know, overnights and stuff.
Al: Mm-hmm
Aislinn: And I was like, "I really like my steam deck," but I know that there's the new Xbox
Aislinn: ally thing that came out and I was starting to read up on it.
Aislinn: And it seemed like there was one article that I read specifically,
Aislinn: from where that was comparing the Xbox console to the Steam deck to the Nintendo Switch 2,
Al: Mm-hmm. Yeah.
Aislinn: and actually the Switch 2 won out of all three, which I thought was interesting.
Aislinn: But I didn't get to read through the nitty-gritty of like all the details of why,
Aislinn: so I am curious just in general how the Xbox compares,
Aislinn: 'cause while maybe the Nintendo Switch is the best overall console,
Aislinn: I still would rather play on my Steam deck or my...
Aislinn: or an Xbox Alode down the line because of the fact
Aislinn: Nintendo is still technically limited in games. So I am curious to hear more about your experience.
Al: I think that's the thing is that I think the experience on Switch is the nicest because it's
Al: built from the ground up as a console and everything was built. It's Nintendo, they've been building
Aislinn: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Al: consoles for decades. They know what they want to do and they do it and you either like it or
Al: you don't, but I generally do. Sure, it would be nice if you could get some more customizability,
Al: but like, you know, if you've got generally, if you've got a Switch game, you know, it's going to run. And
Aislinn: Yeah, and generally the games that are available on Switch very generally speaking are supposed to be
Al: No, you don't have to worry about that. Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. Well, the thing is that
Aislinn: optimized for the Switch. So that also is like a plus in that sense. Like the game that you get on
Aislinn: Steam, you don't know if it's optimized for the Steam Deck or not. You don't know if it's optimized
Aislinn: for the Xbox ally, but when it's on the Switch store, it's supposed to be optimized for the Switch.
Al: actually, well, and here's the thing, generally, if the only games that I am aware of that don't run
Al: well on the switch despite being
Al: on the switch or either like the really big budget studios that don't care and they're
Aislinn: Mm-hmm
Al: just like oh people want switch that's fine let's throw it on switch or like the really tiny
Aislinn: Yeah, yeah
Al: indie games that pay for a bad porting company to do it but those ones tend to get fixed
Al: and so yeah generally if something isn't running well on the switch it will generally
Al: get fixed book a month scarlet and violet excluded I guess.
Aislinn: Yeah
Al: but we don't we don't talk about that one you want to fix you you want the game fixed
Aislinn: Yeah, we don't talk about that
Al: by a switch to you don't like interesting interesting yeah that's interesting okay
Aislinn: You want to be slightly nauseous by the switch to
Aislinn: The frame rates make me nauseous like legitimately
Aislinn: No, it like I just have to get used to it, but it's so fast that I just like turning around. I'm like, oh
Aislinn: Also like a few.
Aislinn: Yeses make me nauseous, so that's probably all tied together.
Al: So yeah, the software is definitely the biggest issue for this and hopefully that will be improved at some point
Al: But I've not really spent much time playing actual games I booted up the demo for skate story and it was
Al: working
Aislinn: Okay, all right. We'll take, you know what? We'll take working that work.
Al: But yeah, we'll see how it goes
Al: I like how it integrate you if you install something on steam or on geog or itch.io adds all into the base launcher
Aislinn: Nice. Nice. Okay, cool.
Al: So
Al: We'll see how that goes and finally I mean what what I've actually been spending my time playing is of course Pokemon legends Z a so
Al: Just a little thing for listeners and we are not going to talk about story spoilers
Al: Because neither of us have finished the game
Al: but
Al: Obviously if you don't want to be spoiled at all
Al: Then we're obviously going to talk about the game and so we might say something that you think is a spoiler
Al: So in that case,
Al: feel free to skip the chapter and go on to the news.
Al: This is all that's left in the what we've been up to section.
Al: So go there's timestamps in the in your podcast app.
Al: I love this game.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Aislinn: Same.
Aislinn: That's it, done.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Al: Well, I mean, yeah, so yeah, yeah, no, no, no.
Aislinn: No, I'm just kidding, I'm just kidding.
Al: I there are, okay, there are some things that they don't have in this game.
Al: that they had in legends are case that I'm very sad about.
Al: And I'm for example, the biggest one is in legends are case if you
Al: released a box of Pokemon, you got a bunch of the, um, the stuff for
Al: peroting them up in that game.
Al: And then you could either use it or you could sell it and you, if you sold it,
Aislinn: Oh, yeah.
Al: you got more money and then you could buy more balls to catch more Pokemon.
Al: I really liked that loop that loop felt perfect to me.
Al: If you, if you caught lots of Pokemon, you could then buy lots of balls.
Al: And catch lots of Pokemon and it felt like a really nice loop of catching.
Al: Um, and that doesn't exist in this game.
Al: If you released them, you just released them.
Al: And I'm really sad about that.
Aislinn: Oh, I didn't know that, see, I haven't filled my boxes yet to know, so that's good to know.
Al: Mm hmm.
Aislinn: That sucks that they got rid of that. I don't like that either.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Like I get that there are, there are more ways to get money now, right?
Al: Like the weren't really battles in legends are case.
Al: And obviously the whole point of this game is at night you go battle, right?
Al: and you can make a decent amount of money.
Al: That's fine. But I really like having the choice of being able to focus on catching for a chunk of time and not run out of money, which is what happens.
Aislinn: Yeah. Yeah.
Al: And yeah, people say, "Oh, you know, you get so much money playing at night that you'll never run out of money."
Al: And I'm like, "Well, I've run out of money." So I don't know what to tell you. I literally have $500 right now, right? Like, come on, let's...
Aislinn: [laughing]
Aislinn: Oh my god.
Al: Uh, I, I, I think you underestimate.
Al: How much I want to catch Pokemon.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Al: So yeah, I can go in battle and make money that way. That's fine. I just, it's, it's an annoyance for me. I wish it weren't the case.
Aislinn: Yeah. No, I mean, yeah, I can, I can, I haven't hit that point in that game in the game yet,
Al: That's a big one.
Aislinn: where I like run out of money and everything and I'm not catching like a whole lot just yet,
Aislinn: but I can definitely see that I can, I can definitely see that issue being the case.
Aislinn: And I'm surprised, again, I'm surprised they got rid of the box feature in that sense.
Aislinn: And I guess maybe to be fair, they did advertise this game.
Aislinn: With a lot of battling aspects, so like it is a battle heavy game, but yeah.
Al: Sure, sure, but it's also a catching focus, it's also a catching focus game, right? Like you can
Al: ignore the fact that the core loop of catching Pokemon is almost identical, slightly improved or
Al: get to that. I'm going to, but almost identical to how Legends are kissed is. Yeah, sure, there's
Aislinn: Mm-hmm Yeah, no, I agree. Yeah
Al: battling. I knew that would be battling. I don't dislike the battling. I just, I like being able to
Al: any particular day of having the choice, but there comes a point where I can no longer continue to
Al: catch and a half to go battle, because I run out of money and that, that's, it is what
Aislinn: Yeah.
Al: it is, but that is a disappointment.
Aislinn: Yeah, no, that's fair.
Aislinn: Definitely not saying that as a defense of the game or anything like that.
Aislinn: It's just like, ah, it's just, I'm trying to sort of rationalize in my head, but I also understand.
Al: - Yeah.
Al: [laughing]
Aislinn: It's like, yeah, it is still a catching game, but there's a reason that you can kind of tumble for one
Aislinn: bush to the next and sneak up on Backstrike Pokémon and be able to do that as much as you want,
Aislinn: I don't know if it was speaking, but...
Al: - Well, and the way that you get most XP
Al: is by knocking them out and then catching.
Aislinn: Yeah.
Al: So right, they do actually encourage you
Al: to catch every single Pokemon.
Aislinn: Mm-hmm.
Aislinn: Well, maybe in the DLC.
Al: [laughing]
Al: - But let me, let me, let go, I doubt it.
Al: I, I, what I love how they've done
Al: is what they have improved in that process
Al: is the battling and to knock them out.
Al: So then you can catch them.
Al: Because in Legends Arceus, you either through bowls at them
Al: or you engage them in battle.
Aislinn: Mm-hmm
Al: Whereas here you can do both, right?
Al: You can, you can try and catch them.
Aislinn: Yeah, I love it
Al: And then if it doesn't succeed, then you can like,
Al: just do a move, right?
Al: You don't have to like move into battle mode.
Al: your already in battle mode.
Al: I really like that.
Al: Also, I noticed that I find it a little bit annoying, so there's so many thoughts.
Al: I like how you can knock it out and then catch it.
Al: That's a really nice addition.
Al: I've always found it weird in Pokemon games where you knock out a Pokemon and suddenly
Al: you can't catch it.
Al: I'm like, "What happened to it?
Aislinn: Mm-hmm.
Al: I knocked out.
Al: It should be lying there.
Aislinn: [laughter]
Al: Let me catch it."
Al: So I like that.
Al: It is a bit annoying that you only get one chance of that and if it doesn't stay in the
Aislinn: Yes, I agree.
Al: ball, then it's gone.
Al: But what I have found is that you can, obviously, you can throw a couple of balls at it
Al: and then it stops being able to stay in balls against angry, right?
Al: Then you have to engage it in battle.
Al: I've noticed that if you attack it, then you can throw balls again before it's knocked
Al: out.
Al: Actually, I think that increases the chance in a standard Pokemon game with your turn-based
Al: battles.
Aislinn: Yeah, I'm pretty sure it is, yeah.
Al: If it's lower health, it's more likely to catch it.
Al: So you can actually knock it, hit it with a move and then try and catch it again and then
Al: hit it with another move and try and catch it again and that gives you more tries.
Al: I just like how they've integrated all that together into one seamless experience.
Aislinn: Mm-hmm
Aislinn: Yeah, I 1,000% agree as well
Aislinn: I I've had to use that method to
Aislinn: To try and catch some like bigger Pokemon and I would just throw ball. Okay, it didn't work
Aislinn: Let's hit a moon hit it with a move. Okay, it's HP's lower throw ball again
Aislinn: But I do also agree like to like if you do end up knocking it out like if you hit use one move and you accidentally knock it out
Aislinn: You have one chance to catch it and that's it and that's that's all it hurts
Al: Yeah, it's, especially when you have, you've spent ages knocking out an alpha, right?
Aislinn: It hurts.
Aislinn: I wish they gave at least one more chance, because like you said, you knocked it out, it's not like it's buried into the ground after you knock it out, you know, it's not like it's in the ground forever, it's not that it's not like the snap of the finger it's gone, situation like it's, you know, you knocked it out, it's just laying there on the ground.
Al: You're like, I've gone through all this effort and I've got this alpha and I throw one ball and nope, it's not caught.
Al: That's really annoying.
Al: Yeah. Yeah, crumbles to dust.
Al: Yeah. Yeah.
Aislinn: Like if anything, you should be able to pick it up and bring it to the Pokémon sending yourself.
Al: Yeah
Aislinn: If we want to be a little more realistic.
Al: Although I'm not really think sure I'm going to be able to pick up that alpha
Al: Obama snow and
Aislinn: Ahhh!
Al: Drag it to the Pokemon Center
Aislinn: If you, you, if you try, you know what?
Aislinn: If your Rotom phone can hold you as you're falling off a building,
Aislinn: why can't your Rotom phone help you carry the big Obama Snowden, you know?
Al: Funny
Al: What's your favorite thing about this game so far?
Aislinn: Oh, man. That's a loaded question. I, I actually, so I've really, even though I don't look like I'm enjoying it, I have been really enjoying the rogue mega battles. I, I, as, as much as it stresses me out, I do enjoy that experience. It's really fun. It's really fun. Like, I think I would like a game like Elton ring down the line. I just, I think as I just don't like the aesthetics of Elton ring, but I like the aesthetics of Pokemon. So like,
Al: You want to poke him on, Elton Ring is what you're saying.
Aislinn: Oh, that, I'd be so on that so fast. I would be so stressed playing it, but man, I would be having a great time because it's satisfying to like watch its movements figure it out and then be able to defeat it. So I, I've, I've been really enjoying that. I've really enjoyed the side quests. Side quests are so, so, so, so, so much fun. Like, I've really been enjoying the loop of continuing the main story for a little bit.
Aislinn: Unlocking wild areas and 100% each wild area, and then afterwards doing all the side quests. I've been really, really, really enjoying it. I also, I feel like it's been like a 50/50, but I've been really enjoying like a lot. I actually know, I think majority people really like the outfits too. Like the customization is, is that all the outfits are so cute. And I have like, I feel like some of the outfits I literally have like, I URL some of the outfits and it's so fun, I can actually dress as my character.
Aislinn: if I want to, and it's so, so, so cute. So I, I, I am curious to learn. I think this is the first time I want to shiny hunt again in a Pokemon game in a really long time, but I just have to learn more about what the shiny hunting process is because it's just, it's just fun to catch Pokemon. So I feel like I would enjoy shiny hunting as well at some point down the line, but that's, that's kind of where I'm at at the moment. I, I, I am enjoying the story too overall so far.
Al: - Yeah.
Al: - Yeah, it's interesting.
Al: I look forward to seeing where it goes.
Al: They hooked me when you start up the game
Al: and the very first thing is you are as I guard sell.
Al: [laughing]
Aislinn: Mm-hmm.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Al: - I'm in, I'm in, yes I am, I guard right now.
Aislinn: That was, I am curious to see if that pans out more
Aislinn: 'cause I thought it was very interesting
Aislinn: that they, that's how the game starts.
Aislinn: So I don't know if that's going to actually
Aislinn: be a part in the story, but I am curious nonetheless.
Aislinn: I have no idea where this story is going.
Aislinn: All I know is I mostly ready to crash out at any point
Aislinn: character in particular.
Al: That is your favorite character so far.
Aislinn: Ooh, ah, yee, um, I mean, honestly, I,
Aislinn: so I picked the girl character,
Aislinn: so I have really been enjoying,
Aislinn: all right, I guess like quote unquote rival,
Aislinn: so for me it's urban.
Aislinn: I really enjoy their personality,
Aislinn: but I also, I also just like light a lot too.
Aislinn: Lita, light a, I still haven't figured out
Aislinn: how to pronounce her name,
Al: [laughter]
Aislinn: but I like it.
Aislinn: I like her character a lot, too, so much so that I would like it would be fun to cosplay her at some point.
Aislinn: Not sure how I figure her leggings, but that's a future me problem, but I really like light out a lot so far.
Al: [laughing]
Aislinn: How about you?
Al: Fair enough.
Al: Look, I always want more easy, right?
Al: Like, he's such a fascinating character.
Al: Yeah, I mean, I'm enjoying his like random,
Aislinn: Mm-hmm.
Al: random butting into conversations
Al: and telling you things and it turns out
Aislinn: Yeah.
Al: that maybe he's like running the entire city, maybe?
Al: I'm not sure, (laughing)
Aislinn: I'm not sure either.
Al: like he seems to be doing more than it seems,
Al: so I'm very intrigued just to where that goes.
Al: I do love how, and this is obviously very early game,
Al: I love how powerful his Flouette is.
Aislinn: I know, yeah. So cool.
Al: So, yeah.
Al: All right, wow, we could probably talk about this forever,
Al: but we probably shouldn't
Al: 'cause it's not a Pokemon podcast.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Aislinn: I know.
Aislinn: Aw man, we gotta do an episode at some point.
Aislinn: Someone's gonna talk about this game at some point.
Al: Yeah, we're probably doing greenhouse episode on it. I'm more detailed one, but we'll see I was gonna say we'll see who gets that, but I mean Kevin and Cody don't have the game. So
Aislinn: I think it'd be fun.
Aislinn: Yay!
Aislinn: I mean, you gotta, you gotta, you gotta, you gotta, you gotta, let the, let the game
Al: Probably me and you unless Johnny wants to come on. I can't tell if he likes the game or not
Aislinn: like ride out more and like I, I feel like I don't have too many complaints about the game
Al: Yes Oh, for sure, like I wouldn't even consider doing a greenhouse episode until we're until
Aislinn: because I'm still in like the honeymoon phase of the game.
Aislinn: So, yeah, yeah.
Al: we're at least finished the main story. Nevermind more, but we'll see where it goes after that,
Al: although we need to do it pre DLC obviously. All right. Well, that's what we've been up to
Aislinn: Mm-hmm.
Al: and also all the Pokemon. Let's talk about some news. A few pieces of news this episode,
Aislinn: Yay!
Al: so first up, gocho on the grassline.
Al: It's not true. The game the Kevin has played has announced that they're going to release on mobile platforms.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Al: That's it. That's it. That's the news. They don't say when they don't specify which platforms, but I'm presuming they mean iOS and Android.
Al: That's it. So if you like the look of this game, but you don't have a switch or a PC or an Xbox or a PlayStation.
Al: If you want to play it on mobile, there you go.
Aislinn: I mean, it's nice.
Aislinn: And I like the article mentions that this is part of an investment to boost studios from
Aislinn: specifically Latin America.
Aislinn: I love that.
Aislinn: And the fact that it's successful to be able to play on more platforms is great.
Al: Yes, always good, I'm sure you could if you tried.
Aislinn: Really no complaints about that.
Aislinn: Ah, I mean I could play that.
Aislinn: I have mobile games in general, but that's a whole other topic in itself.
Al: I have such mixed feelings about touchscreen as an input device for games.
Al: It really depends on the game whether I think it's a good thing.
Aislinn: Yeah. I wish my mobile games allowed me to hook up my controller to my device,
Aislinn: whatever it may be, whether it's an iPad or phone or whatever it may be.
Al: Let me tell you when harvest moon homesweet home added controller support. It went from being a terrible game to an okay game
Aislinn: I mean, that's a big jump in itself.
Al: Yeah, yeah
Aislinn: It went from not bad, terrible game to "okay."
Al: Yeah, I actually had some fun playing that game after the added controller support. I know right?
Aislinn: That's pretty good.
Aislinn: Wow.
Aislinn: But yeah, no, just again, it all comes down to accessibility.
Aislinn: The fact that there is something that's more accessible for more people to be able to experience
Aislinn: this game.
Aislinn: Well, they like the game when I was a different story, whether they like the...
Aislinn: control system on a mobile device is a different story, but the fact that you can play it on more platforms so that it's available to more people that are interested in the game is a good thing, whether it's good on mobile, I don't know, we'll see.
Al: Yeah.
Al: Hmm, that's a whole different question.
Al: Next, we have Spritit D have announced their 2.0 update is coming out on the 4th of December.
Al: So they seem to have taken my advice and bundled together a bunch of updates rather than releasing the smaller ones because I felt like they were releasing too many small updates
Al: and it's the sort of game that feels like you want to jump in for a bunch of times.
Al: So it's the last update was in February, so they've taken a whole bunch and put it together in one update, which is good.
Al: So there's a bunch of new stuff. I don't think I'll talk about much of this because it's really just for people who've played the game like none of this will mean much to people, but there's a bunch of new content and new customization and stuff like that.
Al: that. So, if you have been enjoying
Al: Spiritity and is a
Al: good game, it just wasn't for me, but if you've been enjoying it, then go grab that update in December.
Aislinn: Yeah, it looks like this at minimum, like category-wise, nine new updates, and I seem pretty big too,
Aislinn: from what I saw on everything, pretty good updates, so I hope it continues to help the game flourish.
Aislinn: I know nothing about this game to be fair, but I hope people enjoy it, because it seems like it's a lot.
Al: Is that UK type game?
Al: So, like if you're an idea.
Al: All right.
Al: Speaking of updates to games, cult of the lamb have announced DLC called Will Haven.
Al: This is coming early next year and it is a DLC.
Al: There seems to be quite a lot in this.
Aislinn: Yeah, I've heard a lot of buzz around it. I've heard good thing people are excited about it
Al: It looks interesting. It looks like it expands a bunch of areas and new areas for exploring, also ranching, and obviously a bunch of story stuff as well, so that's cool.
Aislinn: Mm-hmm, the ranching is the most interesting part.
Aislinn: [laughter]
Al: Well, certainly for this podcast.
Aislinn: Exactly.
Aislinn: That's what I'm saying.
Al: I really hope they have
Al: a lot of weird animals, like don't just give us a cow give us a demon cow give us something weird like mishmash of animals or so I don't know I don't know I'm not the game designer give me weird stuff
Aislinn: I mean, it says ranching will allow for you to carry and breed care for and breed rare creatures.
Aislinn: So it's kind of giving, it's giving weird creatures.
Al: Yes, there we go. I want creatures. I don't want animals. I want creatures.
Al: Yes. Yes. I want, I want something that there's mysterious legends about from hundreds of years ago.
Aislinn: So I think you'll get your wish.
Aislinn: I mean, isn't that like half the essence of the game?
Aislinn: another game I also haven't played to be fair but it's been
Aislinn: like my radar for like a while I just never worked my way around to it but yeah I feel like that's half the essence of it right so it's got to happen you're gonna get your sheep cow sheep cow I don't know
Al: yep it's got to all right finally we have Disney Dreamlight Valley they have
Al: announced the Haunted Floating Festival which is their Halloween event from the
Al: 22nd of October which is in the past to the 11th of November so that's three
Al: weeks I think yeah just just under three weeks so when this episode comes out
Aislinn: Yes. Yeah.
Al: just under two weeks to experience the event and you can get a bunch of
Al: weird furniture and stuff like that yeah you know it's a start it's a Disney
Al: Dreamlight Valley event go get your creepy
Aislinn: also another game that I have been curious to check out at some point but still have
Aislinn: not worked my way around and I know I know I was like I can already hear Cody just just
Al: Oh man, there's so much stuff in this game now. Goodness me.
Aislinn: behind me just screaming I know that's crazy that's awesome I think the thing that that I think
Al: There's like five years of content updates in this game so far.
Al: They do keep going.
Aislinn: just the thing for me that like kind of puts me on like like not still picking it up is I'm
Al: Three years, sorry, no.
Aislinn: And I'm just not a huge-
Aislinn: Disney person. I think that's what it comes down to. I like Disney. Don't get me wrong. But also, Disney is like a whole other conversation in itself too, that I'm not going to go into.
Al: shocking
Al: What isn't Disney now that's the question I
Aislinn: You know, it's a good point. I do love Star Wars.
Al: Don't think they're gonna add Star Wars into this. I mean maybe though who knows that
Aislinn: That, you know what? That might be it. That might be it if I do it. You heard it here first.
Aislinn: I will pick the game up immediately.
Al: I mean what well no, I actually don't think they should do that
Al: I think what they should do is use the game
Al: game base and release a new game, which is about Star Wars, and a new game that's about Marvel, there you go
Aislinn: Oh!
Al: Keep keep the universe a separate but have different games because I think part of the problem is if you go hey
Al: Star Wars is now in Disney's dream like Valley you suddenly go oh
Al: Okay, but if I care about Star Wars, and I don't care about goofy, right?
Aislinn: [laughing]
Al: I don't want to be booting up a game and have to go learn how to fish from goofy
Al: just so I can go and see, you know,
Aislinn: [laughing]
Aislinn: I'm just feeling like I can't just,
Aislinn: I can't just imagine just goofy walking around
Aislinn: unlike in the Star Wars universe is crazy.
Al: [laughs]
Aislinn: [laughing]
Aislinn: Mickey Mouse, oh man, oh my god.
Al: "Girphy" means "Dark Vader", right? Like...
Aislinn: Donald Duck and Darth Vader going at it would be crazy.
Al: Okay, I've changed my mind. You need to have them in one game.
Aislinn: But you know what?
Aislinn: I thought this, yeah, I kind of want this now.
Aislinn: Oh, that'd be so funny.
Aislinn: I would, you know what, whichever one you want to give me,
Aislinn: I'll be there first in line.
Aislinn: But I logistically separate games makes the most sense.
Al: Yeah, I do think I do think that would work well. I think
Aislinn: But like humor-wise, oh, it'd be so good together.
Al: I think this is the thing. I think the game loop could work well in games for Star Wars and Marvel as well
Al: I think it works nicely
Aislinn: Mm-hmm
Al: just with different aesthetics
Aislinn: Yeah, oh, I'd be so in though either way count me in
Al: Did you see that just on the business side of things? Do you see that Warner Brothers discovery have said they're up for they're gonna put themselves up for sale
Aislinn: We really?
Al: And they're the yeah, and they own DC and obviously
Aislinn: Oh my god.
Al: This is bad for everybody
Al: But I I would absolutely find it hilarious if Disney bought them because then they would own Marvel and DC now
Al: Obviously objectively bad for everybody do not let this happen, but
Al: Just funny so so funny if that were to happen
Aislinn: oh man oh man yeah that that I I hope it doesn't happen that way but if it did that be crazy
Aislinn: but oh I I had this is something I'll be reading about later I did not know about this at all
Aislinn: so thank you for informing me and that will be my reading for a later point
Al: You're welcome.
Al: All right.
Al: That's the news.
Al: We are now going to talk about why we like cottage core games.
Aislinn: Woo!
Al: It's funny, I sat down a couple of days ago to be like,
Al: "Well, let me actually try and put some words onto this."
Al: And I was like, "Why do I like these games?"
Al: And I said, "I have a really hard question
Al: to start with, right?"
Aislinn: Yeah. Yeah.
Al: because it's not a good idea.
Al: They are weird games, right?
Al: Like you are creating a life for yourself
Al: and like bettering this fake version of yourself
Al: or of someone else if you want to role play in that way.
Al: And it's like, sometimes I feel a little bit silly
Al: because it's like I am harvesting my crops here.
Al: I'm planting, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Al: I could be tidying and making my real life better.
Al: but I do
Al: know, it doesn't work that way. I don't... I almost wonder whether part of the games actually my brain wants to do them to distract myself from the things that you could be doing in real life.
Aislinn: Yeah, I think I think that's definitely an aspect. I would I would agree. I mean we do weeding for example
Al: Cool. Job done.
Aislinn: Do you weeding for example like I or real is not good for the back
Aislinn: But deweeding in animal crossing is great for the back when I'm sitting on the couch, you know
Aislinn: And me deweeding is not as cute as deweeding an animal crossing, you know
Aislinn: It's getting, it gets a little sweaty, it's dirty.
Aislinn: It's like, my hair is all over the place, it's not cute, but in animal crossing, it's so cute.
Al: Can't stream real life de-weeding, you know, you got to try
Aislinn: I mean, you could, but it's an interesting, you know what, you could make it interesting, it's possible for it to be interesting.
Aislinn: If you're not talking, maybe not, but if you're having a conversation, maybe, but it's still not cute.
Al: Look, people watch all sorts of weird things on the internet.
Al: I'm sure they'd watch that, but oh, surely surely.
Aislinn: Are there farmers that stream?
Aislinn: It's gotta be right.
Aislinn: I'm looking it up right now.
Aislinn: Farmer John.
Aislinn: You're not farming.
Aislinn: You are not farming.
Aislinn: You're playing Dead by Daylight.
Aislinn: I'm done.
Aislinn: I quit, never mind.
Aislinn: That's a disappointment.
Aislinn: You can't be farmer John and not be farming.
Aislinn: But yeah, no, I, I, I, yeah.
Al: Yeah, I've seen a bunch of TikToks from Farmers,
Al: but it seemed to be harder to find actual streaming.
Aislinn: Because me, it's just not as interesting as farming in Stardew.
Aislinn: It's not as cute.
Aislinn: It's not as aesthetic, you know?
Al: Yeah, yeah.
Al: I mean, the aesthetic is a big part of it, right?
Al: Like real life is messy.
Al: And you don't get away from that completely in games, right?
Al: Like that's one of the things that we like about Stardew
Aislinn: Mm-hmm.
Al: is the messiness of the characters, right?
Al: We all we all love to hear.
Al: Clint. Yeah, okay. So getting down to like actual reasons of why I thought. So my first one is I like the repetition of it. There's something, particularly where a big part of how I play games is on a handheld device. You know, either my switch or my, well, now my ROG ally X. But previously my steam deck. You know, sitting next to my wife while we watch TV or we do something else.
Al: That's kind of like how I like to play most of my games. And because of that, obviously, I don't play a lot of like story heavy games. So I like the kind of repetition and like almost kind of background brain stuff. If that makes sense. I don't know whether that's something you experience or not.
Aislinn: Yeah, that is I would say that is definitely something that I do like but I would say that it's not like the main part of why I like farming or cottagecore games or anything like I just like for example not the person is a cottagecore game but in most recent memory like I enjoy doing the Tartarus stuff in Persona 3 because it is like a brain turn off thing.
Aislinn: The repetitious movement or motion to like grind or in the case of like playing Stardew tending to your farm tending to your animals it is nice to kind of put that at the forefront of my brain and focus on that so I'm not thinking about anything else and I can just like kind of just look at that just focus on that and that's it.
Aislinn: I just distract myself from anything that is going on in the world so I do enjoy that but only up to a certain point because then for me it gets.
Aislinn: To repetitive and that's where the conversation of like for me personally I can only have too I can only have so many farming games in the rotation because I can only do that repetition so much before I feel like I need I need to see more growth over time.
Al: Yes, absolutely. I 100% agree that's that's that's one of the reasons that I didn't like
Al: Sugar du Island is that there was no growth aspect to it. Right and growth can look different in different games, right?
Aislinn: Mm-hmm
Al: Like in in stardew
Al: It's very much like I want to build this really big efficient farm that means that I don't have to do much
Al: but
Al: Like different games can do it in different ways. I doesn't have to be that right
Al: like it wasn't that in
Al: I didn't have a big autonomous farm. I was still using my water watching can by the end of that by the time I finished that game
Al: But I still really liked it because I felt like I was building up the bizarre instead, right? That was my progress
Aislinn: I just, I like to see, I just want to see progress that feels like fulfilling in the sense
Aislinn: that if I'm doing it over, if I'm building up of the same farm, but in different aesthetics
Aislinn: or different slightly different formats over and over in different farming games, I'm
Aislinn: eventually going to like burn myself out from it.
Aislinn: It's why I can't play like, for example, Animal Crossing Happy Home Paradise and House
Aislinn: flipper at the same time because it's both decorating.
Aislinn: And I can only decorate so much.
Aislinn: Like I like it, I like the repetition of doing this decorating, whether it could be completely different decorations that I'm doing in both games or whatever, but there's I can only do it up to a certain point before the burnout hits.
Al: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, for sure. That makes sense.
Aislinn: But for the time that I am doing it, I, it is something that I just focus on decorating and I focus on nothing else and it's really nice.
Al: Yeah, I think that's true for me as well. It's just that like once I hit that point
Al: I then just switched to a different game that does the same thing
Aislinn: [laughing]
Al: in a different way, right? Like if you play stardew for a hundred hours, and then you switch to
Al: grand bazaar
Al: Like in a way, it's it's the same but in a way, it's different, right?
Al: And and that's why I keep going back to them, right? Like I've now been
Al: Doing this podcast or anything
Al: you know there's always something new and interesting, even with the things at the same.
Al: Yeah.
Aislinn: Mm-hmm. Yeah. I mean, for me, I guess you know what to be fair. I feel like I've only been getting into farming games this past maybe three years and that
Aislinn: Is even maybe just a little bit of a stretch because there's just for me. It's like it it is to be fair
Al: Three years is still a long time to do anything, though.
Aislinn: Like I've been playing more and more Stardew as a recently finally. I have not still made any progress and I still don't know
Al: Cavan was laughing when he's listening.
Aislinn: 90% of the world of stardew to be
Aislinn: completely honest. Yeah, because I don't know what that means. I have no idea and it's crazy that I have no idea what that means, but like the the fun that I've been
Aislinn: having with managing my farm thus far in stardew has been really nice. And for the time that I was playing like feels
Aislinn: mystery. It was also very
Aislinn: nice, but I think for me, the reason that I like the core, one of the core reasons I like,
Aislinn: farming games is more so just to be immersed in the world, which is getting to know the characters,
Aislinn: and then also farming is a fun thing. But the primary thing is I like to see progress,
Aislinn: and I especially like to see progress in the sense of for me getting to know the characters in the game.
Aislinn: and also just like the music and the aesthetics.
Aislinn: Like if I don't like how the game looks and for me personally the music like I when I when I play a game I like to listen to the music in the game.
Aislinn: I know like for example for you you often will have like a podcast running as you're playing a game for me I like to just have the I like to just just play the game.
Aislinn: So maybe if I played like I actually bought I completely forgot the name of the game what was the episode?
Aislinn: I bought the game too and I completely forgot cuz it was on a good sale that farming game firefly firefly village yes I know I know so much I know we gotta we gotta stand out a little bit more but.
Al: uh, oh, yes. It was Ashwood Valley. No, that's the one I've not done, uh, Firefly Village.
Al: Yeah. Sorry. There's too many, there's too many of these small new, because there's, there's
Al: Firefly Village, there's Ashwood Valley. There was another one that me and Kevin have done.
Al: What was that with? Sunset Island. They're, I gotta get better names for these games, man.
Aislinn: Yeah so I ended up buying firefly village I haven't had a chance to pick it up yet cuz I've been still slowly working my way into games but maybe I should while I'm playing that game catch up on my very very big backlog of podcasts while I play the game the thing is I enjoy playing like a cottage core game to be able to just disassociate and just play the game and not be connected in any of any sort of way with the rest of the world like I just want to just exist in that world.
Aislinn: So that is a big thing for me that I like is that is I that's what I like when I'm looking for a good farming game is can I just turn everything off and just exist in the world.
Al: Hmm, what?
Aislinn: And I feel like so far I could do that for a start, do I feel like I can so far do that for feels
Al: What would you say percentage of your gaming time is on your streams versus not on?
Aislinn: I would argue probably 75% is on stream and 25% is off stream.
Aislinn: I would love for it to be 50/50,
Al: Yeah. Yeah. The reason. Yeah. So the reason I ask is I feel like that changes how you play,
Aislinn: but I have too many other projects that I like to do
Aislinn: outside of streaming, so it's hard for me
Aislinn: to bump that off stream number up.
Aislinn: Like a lot of my dedicated gaming time is on stream.
Aislinn: [soft music]
Al: right? Because you're not going to, you know, sit down and listen to a podcast while you're
Al: gaming because you're streaming, right? Like, it's just, it's not something you can realistically
Aislinn: Yeah. Yeah.
Al: that makes gaming a, you know, a joint experience most of the time rather than a solo experience,
Al: right? And whereas a lot of most of my gaming is a solo experience, you know, other than I always
Al: find it funny when a new game, a new big game that a lot of my friends play comes out. And I like,
Al: you jump on the switch and you look at your friends list and everybody's playing the same game.
Aislinn: Mm-hmm. Yeah
Al: And that feels cumulative, even though you're not actually playing together, it's like,
Aislinn: Yeah, it's so cute. Yeah
Al: We're all playing this thing together is quite...
Al: I noticed that I had like 12 people online yesterday and every single one of them was playing Pokemon
Aislinn: Yeah, I love that
Al: So I feel like that massively changes things, right?
Al: Like I... 'cause I'm doing things solo most of the time, right?
Al: Like I'm just playing. Yeah, sure. I'm with my wife, but she's not experiencing the game, right?
Aislinn: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Mm hmm. Mm hmm. Mm hmm.
Al: Like she doesn't care about the game. That's fine. We are together in a different way.
Al: we're together watching something and I'm playing this thing on the side like that.
Al: It changes what I want from it and I think that's quite often why I'm less story focused because you know you can't have that whereas I guess the advantage of the way you're doing it is that you can be like really focus on the story where you're doing that because that's the point of what you're doing.
Aislinn: Yeah.
Al: Which doesn't you don't have to be streaming to do that obviously. I'm not I'm not trying to say that you have some unique situation where where you can do this and most people can't do that.
Aislinn: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Al: I suspect most people play a game.
Al: And don't do other things at the same time.
Al: I don't know. I'm just making the op.
Aislinn: I think it's a pretty, probably a pretty high percentage of people are playing a game
Aislinn: while, like, for example, watching a YouTube video, like, my husband does that all the time
Aislinn: where he's playing. He plays, I would say, his version of a lot of cottagecore games,
Aislinn: where they're games that he can pick up and put down very casually, and he can watch a bunch
Aislinn: of YouTube videos simultaneously. Um, like, for example, power wash simulator just two just came
Aislinn: out pretty recently. I think that's all I've been seeing him playing recently besides
Aislinn: he's just been power washing, and he's just sitting there having a good time making the progress
Aislinn: in the game and catching up in a whole lot of, like, bots on YouTube, for example. Um, and power wash
Aislinn: simulator too is, or just power wash sim in general is a very repetitive game. Looking at your notes,
Aislinn: the number goes up in the sense that the percentage goes up, and, um, it's just nice to turn the brain off.
Al: Yeah. Well, yeah. So, I mean, that's, so that's an interesting thing because, um, like obviously
Al: the repetitive nature we talked about it. And as you say, obviously, one of the things I'd put
Al: down is I like the number go up, right? Like I like seeing in Stardew, you're, you're, you're,
Al: the amount of money that you have go up, the number of plots you have go up, all these things
Al: are going up. I like that. That's satisfying. Um, I have never ever,
Al: once even considered playing power war simulator. Uh, but you would think that it would be
Aislinn: Really?
Al: something that would be interesting based on all these things I've mentioned so far. And,
Aislinn: Yeah.
Al: and I don't know what it is, but it just to me sounds incredibly boring. I think the reason is,
Al: it's not, it's not about what you do in game. It's about what you're doing with your hands.
Al: And I think there's a funny
Al: fundamental difference between farming games and power war simulator in how you play it physically. So power war simulator you've got your power washer and you are essentially very slowly moving across this big building or small building or the point is right you're you are moving methodically I mean you don't have to you can do whatever you want but like the ideal way of doing it is you methodically go from left to right up to down whatever and you clean this thing.
Aislinn: Yeah. True. Yeah.
Al: And how farming games work farming games is a lot of movement it's a lot of doing things and it's repetitive but it's like my hands do a lot of stuff but I don't think power was simulator would work in that way and I think that's one of the ways that I physically find it satisfying is because I am doing a lot with my hands.
Aislinn: Mm-hmm yeah, I think
Al: It's like we had this we had this conversation about in our last episode about when I was talking about asking about persona because I was asking about whether it's
Al: the conversations whether they were automatic and I could just like put the console down and listen and watch the conversation and do something else with my hands because that's the thing is that my hands want to do something.
Aislinn: I guess because for me, I do enjoy the aspect of power wash simulator to be able to
Aislinn: just do that repetitive task and I don't mind that it's not. I definitely know what you mean with
Aislinn: like you're able to do more with your hands and I think if we're talking just strictly, strictly
Aislinn: managing a farm versus strictly just power.
Aislinn: I think I would prefer power washing just a little bit more because for me it requires a little bit less thought in the sense that if I also have commitment issues in the sense that like when I'm building up a farm like I'm afraid to commit like this section is going to be the farm and this is this is it like I'm like what if I want to move the farm like it requires a little bit more thought that sometimes I'm not. But it's just then it's like also like a lot of work but also like that's kind of what I just.
Al: What if you want to move it? You move it. Yeah, more stuff to do. That's the beauty of it.
Aislinn: and maybe that's my but I that's that's what can get overwhelming for me is that it is so much to do and sometimes not always sometimes it's not what I want but when I do want that it's really really really really satisfying but sometimes all I want to do is come just the bare minimum and just clean a wall.
Al: You know, and here's here's an intro. I totally get that. I I get the overwhelm. I absolutely do
Al: I do think that sometimes farming games can be a little bit like there's so much you can do
Al: but I think
Al: one of the ways that I
Al: would think about farming games is
Al: Don't think about what you can do
Al: Think about what you want to do. Think about what you have to do and actually what you have to do in these games is very little and
Aislinn: Mm-hmm
Al: Often the things you have to do.
Al: A very limited in how long you have to do them for.
Al: So if you think about it, what you have to do in a farming game is you have to water your crops that you have.
Al: Once you've watered those crops, six days in a row, and you've harvested them, you no longer have to water your crops anymore.
Al: If you don't want to water your crops anymore, don't plant any more crops.
Aislinn: Mm-hmm.
Al: Do you have to go into the mine? No, you don't have to go in the mine if you don't want to.
Aislinn: Oh, I love going in the mine, though.
Aislinn: [laughter]
Al: Yeah, I know. And that's fine. If you want to do that, absolutely. I love it as well.
Aislinn: Yeah, yeah, yeah, I know.
Aislinn: Yeah.
Al: That's one of the things that I really enjoy in star juice going into the mine and mining a bunch.
Al: One of the things we did very early on in the podcast was did a mining challenge where played a star juice save where all we were allowed to do was mine and see how much money you could make.
Aislinn: Oh, that sounds great. I should do that challenge. That sounds awesome. That is a good point.
Al: It was actually really fun to do. I need to go back and do some more of these challenges, but it's been a while.
Aislinn: I put too much of an expectation on myself. I think it is a problem.
Al: I think that's pretty common with farming games because you're like, "Oh, there's these things I can do. I can talk to people. I can farm. I can ranch. I can explore the mine. I can meet more people. There's a festival. There's so many things, but none of them you have to do.
Al: you really got it. Look, look after it. But if you really don't want to, you can go sell the
Aislinn: Yeah. Yeah.
Al: level. Don't buy the animal in the first place, right? Like there's, you don't have to go fishing. You don't have to go exploring. There's none of these things you have to do. And I think that this is the trap that people fall into so often is going, I have to do these things and actually, no, focus on what you're enjoying.
Al: And then you might experience more of the things at some point and enjoy them and then continue on them. Like I quite often in my, I've talked about on this podcast, how when I start a new farming game,
Al: often speedrun spring, because to me spring is quite boring. There's not a lot you can do. And so I will do as much as I can in terms of farming for my stamina. And I will focus on a couple of characters to talk to every day.
Al: And other than that, I won't do much. I'll go in, I'll talk to the people I'll do the farming and I'll do what I need to do. And then I'll go to bed and I'm quite often going to bed, you know, early afternoon, because there's nothing else to do. There's no stamina for me to do. And that's fine.
Al: Right. Like he says, you have to do all these things in a specific order at a specific time. That's why I love a bit.
Aislinn: Yeah. That's, that's very true. That's very, very true. And I definitely recognize that I put
Aislinn: that expectation on myself. But the other thing is I also want to do all of those things is also
Aislinn: have my problem too, because I do, that's definitely, and this definitely actually all these
Aislinn: to burn out, essentially. But I do like to do all of those things. So like I somewhat recently,
Aislinn: installed like mods on my Stardew, so that I can pause time whenever I want. If I want to have
Aislinn: unlimited stamina, because I want to mine for however long on endlessly, I can do that. But I haven't
Aislinn: fully taken advantage of those mods, because I also am trying to like find a balance of like,
Aislinn: just whatever I feel like doing that day in Stardew, just do that and just don't worry about
Aislinn: everything else and trying to like I guess essentially like give myself grace because I
Al: Yeah, absolutely.
Aislinn: like doing all the farming. I like doing all the mining. I like talking to all
Al: Mm hmm. Well, well, look is I can't I can't I can help you there like if you you don't have to do everything but if you want to do everything then that's own that's all on you. I get that.
Aislinn: the characters and when I say all the characters I mean all love the
Aislinn: characters because I like I love to get to know the characters in the game so it's a
Aislinn: lot that's and that's totally I totally recognize that's on me but that is why I
Aislinn: I like that is the core, I know.
Aislinn: But that's the core of the cottage core games as a whole, is that I can do all those things if I want to, and it's awesome that there's so much to do that I do like to do to be able to just immerse myself in that world.
Al: Yes.
Al: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Aislinn: And I feel like it's you don't get that from a like for example triple a game like I don't know why it's spider man was the first thing that came to mind, but you can't do that with spider man like yeah, there are a number of things that you can do like side quests and stuff to do enjoy.
Aislinn: But like the primary focus of the game is to progress the main storyline and sometimes I'm just not feeling that like yes, I'm still immersed in a world and immersed in like the story of the characters and everything, but sometimes I just want to hang out on a farm and slowly gets another characters while I decorate and take care of my plants and just.
Aislinn: cord endless stones from the minds because I really like to
Aislinn: remind. [laughs]
Al: Yeah, no, I think you're totally right. I just think that the biggest thing that people have prop the biggest problem people have with these games is
Al: They don't think of them as being choices. They think of them as being everything. I have to do everything and actually I think that Stardew and other games like it feels
Al: Mystery or whatever. I know not everybody is the biggest fan of of any individual farming game
Al: But I think they're all the same in that they give you
Al: So many choices of things to do and that's what I mean.
Al: When I was thinking of life as hard to control sometimes, life can be difficult.
Al: Sometimes it's better than others and different people have better or worse lives, but everybody
Al: goes through hardships and sometimes you just want to forget about the hardships and focus
Al: on something else and the good thing about cottage cooking.
Al: I don't need to go exploring the mines, I mean you probably want to at least do some of it to get stuff to upgrade your tools, but you don't need to.
Aislinn: Yeah.
Al: And if I just want to have a chill casual
Al: life building up a big farm, I can do that. And nothing technically would ever go bad for you, your life in that. And that's not something you can ever have in real life, right? Like everybody, every person in the world, no matter who you are, will have bad stuff happen to you. But you can have a game where that's not the case and that's really nice.
Aislinn: Yeah. Yeah.
Aislinn: I definitely agree and I guess also to add on to that as well is that farming games are
Aislinn: relatively new in the landscape of games existing as a whole and I feel like there is this
Aislinn: like it's difficult to be able to understand that you can play a game and
Aislinn: you can play a farming sim and you don't have to do everything because the
Aislinn: gaming environment for what feels like a long time is kind of like yeah you're supposed to do everything, you're supposed to do all these side quests, you're supposed to do this main story and it's like no you can just you don't have to talk to a single person in this game if you don't want to and that's okay you can just exist on the farm by yourself and...
Al: that would that would be an interesting challenge to do is see how much you can do without talking to
Al: anybody. The the uh, the Hermit, Hermit run.
Aislinn: You didn't know I heard it, right?
Al: Because you couldn't upgrade, you couldn't upgrade any tools. You wouldn't be able to buy
Aislinn: But I'm sure you can do that.
Aislinn: To it, it can, to an extent.
Aislinn: Yeah.
Al: anything so you'd have to get everything from the mines, I feel like, but you could still,
Al: you would still get seats that way. What would be the most efficient way to get seats in that?
Al: I'm going to have to think through so I think this could be interesting.
Aislinn: Ah, well, but that's like the thing,
Aislinn: is that you could up to a certain extent, of course,
Aislinn: play the game that way.
Aislinn: and because the genre is still relatively so new.
Aislinn: It's not on everyone's scope or in everyone's radar that they have the option.
Aislinn: So someone like me that I would say only within the past maybe 10 years has been able to fully dedicate more time to gaming.
Aislinn: And because I struggled for a while, going from high school into college, where I was not gaming as much as I used to as a kid and really wanted to because I was so focused on my studies that I felt guilty for gaming.
Aislinn: So I fell out of gaming for a while, and then ever since pretty much like the last like 10 years is when I kind of started to like reclaim that for myself.
Aislinn: And again, the farming game world is relatively within that 10 years is when it started to come up.
Aislinn: But I came from an era of playing games where you had an objective, you had a main objective and you have to do that main objective in order to be able to progress the game.
Aislinn: and that's pretty much it.
Aislinn: when I'm presented with all these options, I'm like in my head, I'm like this is the main objective, but again, the beauty of these games is that you don't, that is not the main objective, the main objective is just to do whatever you want and that is wonderful for these games.
Al: Yeah, so your flaw with your studies is what I did is I just stayed up all night and got no sleep and played lots of games and then regretted it in the morning and then continued that cycle over and over again.
Aislinn: I think I think if I was taking classes that didn't require my physical ability, I would
Aislinn: probably do the same thing, realistically, but I think if I would not be smart of me to not
Al: Yeah, that's that's that's that. Yeah. Yeah. That's fair.
Aislinn: get sleep prior to a flight lesson, I think that's definitely what it was.
Al: I accept that. That is fair for the record for the record just in case it wasn't clear. I was joking.
Aislinn: You can't tell me that wasn't sometimes though, but it's okay if you do some time.
Al: But no, yeah, that
Al: No, no, I wasn't joking about doing it. I definitely did it. I was joking about suggesting that it's something anybody should do.
Al: That's not. I I look I when I was in university, that was when Minecraft came out and so that was I spent so like I have no idea how long right because it was before I was tracking any sort of gaming time and you know Minecraft was just standalone executable file. I don't think it tracked time.
Aislinn: Oh, no.
Al: Absolutely no idea how long I...
Al: I actually had played in Minecraft, but there were, you know, it was multiple days a week I would stay up to like 4am playing.
Al: Yeah, consistently.
Aislinn: Mm-hmm. Yeah.
Al: And it's very funny because now my youngest is playing Minecraft.
Aislinn: Awwwwwwww.
Al: And it's very funny that he's now doing that. I spent so long doing in university, he's now playing.
Aislinn: Aww. That's cute. That's really, really cute.
Al: Completely independent from me. I never mentioned the game to him. He's just like
Al: found it through like watching you know YouTubers and stuff.
Aislinn: -Mm-hmm. -No, I love that.
Aislinn: Runs in Minecraft, runs in the DNA confirmed.
Al: Yeah, so she gets started on farming games, shouldn't I?
Aislinn: [Laughter]
Aislinn: I don't think you have to. It's in the DNA.
Aislinn: I'm convinced that whatever games you've sunk,
Aislinn: now I've convinced myself whatever games you've sunk,
Aislinn: the most time into during your formative years
Aislinn: and just growing up in general.
Aislinn: It's in the DNA, is it?
Aislinn: It sounds like I wouldn't be surprised either.
Al: I mean I wouldn't be surprised.
Aislinn: If he's on, if he's on the path of Minecraft,
Aislinn: then I think it's only natural that farming games are only coming.
Aislinn: Or what's going to be coming next?
Al: Yeah, yeah, well, we'll see, right are there any of your points that you haven't discussed maybe that one
Aislinn: Only time can tell.
Aislinn: Um, let's see.
Aislinn: I mean, I do I, yeah, I was going to say I do definitely enjoy because I also have a hard time like trying to set to decide what I want to do because again, I want to do everything.
Aislinn: So when I'm given a request to be able to focus on that request, I do really like that.
Aislinn: I really, really, really enjoy that about farming games is that they gave me a very small specific objective and I can complete that objective.
Aislinn: I get some extra money, I can use that money to do whatever I want.
Aislinn: I'm that point. I enjoyed that. I enjoyed that loop a lot.
Al: Yeah, that's fair it's almost like that's the same as what you were talking about with Pokemon as well
Aislinn: Yeah, there's a trend. There's a trend. I love side quests in general. It's something there's something about side quests that I just really, I enjoy that those little mini, I think that's just another like little mini storyline that I enjoy and I just enjoy little storylines, which is what ties back into like I enjoy getting to know the characters within farming games.
Al: doing all the side quests and
Al: Well, it's also the progress thing as well, right?
Aislinn: Like I don't.
Al: Like you very quickly see progress that way.
Aislinn: Yeah, yeah, it feels it feels like a good a good way to to me.
Aislinn: How do I like I mean, I don't getting more money. I don't know if that's necessarily like a significance way to see progress versus like seeing my farm grow over time. I enjoy both of those to be fair. I do enjoy both of those. So.
Al: I mean they're heavily tied together right if you're playing in the traditional you farm to get money sort of way
Aislinn: I like just hoarding things like I like hoarding money. I like hoarding items. I like to organize those items.
Aislinn: And then taking all those things that I've hoarded and then putting them into like my farm. I that that loop. I really enjoy being able to.
Al: born to be a billionaire
Aislinn: I don't think that's ever going to happen. I really don't think that's ever going to happen.
Al: no I do I i I find really funny is when people are like oh if I was a billionaire I would do all these things to help people and i'm like and that's why you'll never be a billionaire
Al: well not the only reason but one of the reasons
Aislinn: [laughing]
Aislinn: - Yeah, that's true.
Aislinn: I always say to myself,
Aislinn: I'm like, if I were to ever win the lottery,
Aislinn: I don't need all of that money.
Aislinn: I really don't need all of that money.
Aislinn: I just need enough money to be able to get my own little,
Aislinn: like, log cabin in the middle of the woods.
Aislinn: And that's really it's with a great internet connection,
Al: with a good internet connection.
Aislinn: the best internet connection.
Aislinn: And that's really it.
Aislinn: I don't, I don't need.
Aislinn: So I'm like, yeah, I would not be a billionaire because I would just be giving all that money to everyone else that does need it. So everyone else can do the same thing that they want to do. I don't need all that money.
Aislinn: I just need enough to be able to sustain myself and do the, the, whatever I want to do.
Al: [laughter]
Aislinn: And then I would never work a day in my life and I would probably just play a lot of more, I would probably play a lot more farming games.
Al: [laughing]
Al: And a lot more persona.
Aislinn: A lot more persona. I would eventually finish persona.
Al: [laughing]
Aislinn: One day that'll happen.
Al: Maybe you'll be finished persona three
Aislinn: We'll see.
Aislinn: We got persona three, not persona three, persona four remakes coming.
Aislinn: Maybe I'll finish it in time for that, but probably not.
Al: Depends what you define as finished, right?
Aislinn: I think once you finish persona, it's like it, but also I don't know because I never played a persona game before. I think because it's all story based.
Al: Right, okay, fair enough.
Aislinn: I also like persona because I also like getting to know like the little side, like the side story lines with all the characters. So it's all coming together.
Al: Side quests all the way down.
Aislinn: Side quest, yeah, side quest all the way down, getting to know characters all the way down, being able to just turn the brain off all the way down.
Al: But turn it all the way down, and I just turn my brain off.
Aislinn: Those are some of the core, all of it just turn all of it, all of it.
Aislinn: It's all I've asked me for.
Aislinn: I want to be an immersive world to turn my brain off.
Aislinn: The real world's I'm trying to think of this anything else.
Al: [laughing]
Al: I think we're done.
Aislinn: I'm like, are there any other other points?
Al: It's okay to be done.
Aislinn: Oh, man.
Aislinn: Well, actually, no, I have I do have a question.
Aislinn: I have a question for you because I have I have a point of like decorating.
Al: Go for it.
Aislinn: I like decorating a lot too.
Aislinn: As evident by the fact that I like games like house flipper as well.
Aislinn: How do you feel about decorating within really?
Al: Oh I hate it. It's not that I have anything against it, right? Like I love that people can do that
Al: and have, you know, I just don't have that creativity in me, the creativity for design.
Al: I don't care. What I do like is like laying out my farm in a particular way to make it the most
Al: efficient for what I want to do. I like that. It's kind of a similar sort of thing, I guess.
Aislinn: Hmm. Yeah, I think so. I think for me, I like how my farm looks. I think I'm definitely a static
Al: Like, yeah, I know my absolutely not for me, but like my house is like every single time,
Al: if I can move the bed, I will move the bed to the next to the door. So I can walk in the house
Aislinn: [laughter]
Al: and beds there, right? You immediately can fall asleep. It's purely a place to keep the stuff that
Aislinn: Yeah, no, that's--
Al: that I need to keep and nothing else. I don't care about
Al: it like making it look fancy. I will, which is funny because like I will obviously expand my home because you know to finish
Al: some of the storylines in these games you need to expand your home, but I'm like expanding my home and putting nothing in it, because I don't care about it.
Al: It's just like this big, empty space.
Aislinn: [both laughing]
Aislinn: How do you feel in regards to getting to know the characters?
Aislinn: I assume you liked that too, right?
Al: Yes, yeah. Yeah, no, definitely. I think it does, it takes a lot for me to cater about the characters.
Aislinn: 'Cause you were making the joke about Clint.
Aislinn: Okay.
Al: There is, you know, maybe a, a hand fill that I could tell you about in story season's grand desire.
Al: Most of them don't really care about. Stardew, I think, is unique in how many characters are
Al: feel like well-rounded people and I could actually talk about. So it just, yeah, it depends on the
Al: farming game and who they are. I think they have to have something about them that makes them
Al: interesting for me to care.
Al: I don't automatically care about learning about people, they have to hug me.
Aislinn: That's fair. I'm like, just thinking on it. I think I, because I think they don't have to
Aislinn: automatically hook me, because I know they probably will eventually have some,
Aislinn: get some reaction out of me, whether it's me liking them, or feeling indifferent about them,
Aislinn: or not liking them. I think all of those reactions still all interest me in one sense or another,
Aislinn: But I think that also stems from the fact that I just like meeting new people.
Aislinn: And whether I get along with them or not is a up for debate, but it's just interesting to meet new people.
Al: - Oh yeah.
Aislinn: So having that experience within games kind of feels somewhat akin to meeting a new person.
Aislinn: So I do enjoy that. But it's funny because I also don't like people, but I also just think it's people are just interesting, which makes sense why I have like a general interest in psychology.
Al: What does I hate people so?
Aislinn: Because I think people are just interesting in general.
Al: I do think people are interesting, but from afar, so I like to people watch if I'm somewhere
Aislinn: It ties into it as well.
Aislinn: There.
Al: in public, but I'm never going to go talk to any of them.
Aislinn: I guess for me to I'm also forced to talk to new people, whether I like it or not.
Aislinn: Because I meet new people almost every day with my job.
Al: Yeah, yeah, that's
Aislinn: So I, and I'm stuck with this person, but whether it's one day or five days, I'm stuck with this person.
Aislinn: So I have to get to know them whether I like it or not.
Aislinn: So maybe that is an aspect too, but it's always, I always come away with something and I like learn something about myself too, which is always very interesting to me.
Aislinn: But I think a big difference between you and I when it comes to cottagecore games is one of the things that we like is creating an efficient system versus creating an aesthetic system and those are both things that you can achieve within a farming game that I think is cool.
Al: - Choice.
Aislinn: Yes.
Aislinn: Having that choice is very nice to be able to, like you said, like, live the life that you want to live within the game.
Aislinn: For me, I want to be somewhat efficient, but I want to also like what I'm looking at.
Aislinn: Like, I think I already said this, but just in case I didn't, if I don't like how a game looks, it's hard for me to play the game.
Al: That's fair I don't personally have that but I get why you would I think turn extreme obviously like there's some games where I look and go
Al: I just can't imagine like do you know the one that I find fascinating as vampire survivors I
Aislinn: Oh my god. My. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Al: Do not understand why anybody likes to play that game because it just looks so bad
Al: Like it doesn't even look it doesn't even look like it was you know a good looking game in the 90s or I know it's a new game
Al: And I'm not trying to say, but like you know how so
Al: you're looking at a game and it's from the 90 like oh boy, this looks dreadful, but I can understand why people liked it at the time
Al: And vampires the fibers if it was around the 90s would have looked like a bad game at that time as well
Al: It's just it just ugly ugly game
Aislinn: Oh, man, you were speaking to my heart right now, because my husband loves vampire survivors.
Aislinn: And I might like vampire survivors, but the aesthetics of that game, like the cover for
Aislinn: the game in itself and just like, oh, and then I just, I, I also am not a fan of the aesthetics
Aislinn: of that game, but, um, my husband is convinced that I would like the game so much so that
Al: the first.
Aislinn: and he bought it for me and then it became
Aislinn: on my stream and then the sub go was met and now I have to play vampires if I was at some point on my stream and I'm looking forward to it
Aislinn: But also dreading it because I don't like how the game looks aesthetically
Al: I just I mean, I don't understand the concept of why you would enjoy the game full-stop either, right? Like it's just like
Aislinn: I don't know.
Al: It's it doesn't feel to me like there's any skill or any actual thing you can do other than just like it just
Al: The whole point is to feel powerful, but like you don't actually have to do anything to get to that point
Al: But the first time I saw a screenshot of it because like I'd heard about it so much and like what people really love this
Al: Doesn't sound like the sorry game. I'd play a bit fine. Whatever. I get it like people like different things
Al: and then I saw a screenshot, I'm like,
Al: this is the game they've been talking about, this looks dreadful.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Aislinn: - What it did, ah!
Aislinn: So the one podcast you did, what, what,
Aislinn: I do you remember what it was?
Aislinn: 'Cause remember how like Stardew became
Aislinn: like the most positively rated?
Aislinn: Vampire Survivor is like top 10 in that list, right?
Al: Yes, yeah, we did, I think we mentioned that in passing, yeah, I can't.
Aislinn: I don't remember what it was to,
Aislinn: but it's one of the most highly rated games in Steam.
Aislinn: And also again, my husband loves it.
Aislinn: as one of his favorite games to like put on.
Aislinn: And watch YouTube videos to and just turn his brain off to and I just do not understand it because I look at it and I'm like, I'm stressed. There's so much stimulus happening. There's so much going on. It's not even cute looking, but like it's highly rated for a reason and I just don't know what that is. So I feel like I should try it and I am going to try it eventually. So maybe I'll keep you posted on that. I'll let you know.
Al: [laughing]
Al: Yeah, look, I mean, different people like different things and I'm not saying that, you know,
Al: one should like or dislike. I just, I just don't get it.
Aislinn: I mean to, but I do have that curiosity to try to understand why. And if I don't, that's okay.
Al: Fair enough. I know there are so many more games that I would actually enjoy so I'm not going to play a game that I am pretty sure I'm not going to enjoy
Aislinn: And that's fair. That's totally fair.
Al: It was the Tamagotji Plaza if
Aislinn: Oh, my God. Oh, man.
Aislinn: That was one of the, that was one of the podcasts that I, I didn't, uh,
Aislinn: I was able to catch up with them and listen to. Oh, that made me so sad.
Al: Yeah, the lice said about it the best the better
Aislinn: Yeah, I think it's that I didn't look at, to be fair, I didn't look at the,
Aislinn: I don't remember the aesthetics of the game.
Aislinn: Negostatically without the--
Aislinn: game, everything else. As much as I'm into this, that exhibit game, I don't--nothing could say that game from what it sounds like. I just don't care. I just don't care.
Al: down Paris survivors is number six, by the way.
Al: So there you go.
Aislinn: Number six. Yeah, I don't know.
Al: Number six, it goes.
Al: Stardew Valley portal to Teraria,
Al: people playground, left for dead two,
Al: and then down Paris survivors.
Al: And then Util truck simulator two,
Aislinn: Ooh, I remember I used to not like the aesthetics of Hades, and then all of a sudden I did.
Aislinn: I don't know what happened.
Al: I, I mean, I think it looks gorgeous. It's a really, the looks of it is definitely not the issue that I ever had with that game.
Aislinn: Yeah, it's wonderful.
Al: There were many edges I had with that game that was not it.
Aislinn: That is fair, that is fair.
Aislinn: For whatever reason, I used to not like the aesthetics of the game at all, then all of a sudden something flipped and I like the aesthetics now, and I think they're awesome, but
Aislinn: Vampire survivor says not done that, but I am very happy to get a stone.
Aislinn: Give it a chance, and it must be highly rated for a reason for most people, so I'm curious to see what it is, but if I don't like it, that's okay too, because you know you know you're not going to like it, and that's fine, but also just goes to show that aesthetics also don't mean everything, but it's something that I like to prioritize when it comes to games. Oh my God, yeah.
Al: Look, I, we both, we both have played Pokemon for so many years, right?
Al: Like, if if aesthetics was everything, we would have been turned off at some point.
Aislinn: You're telling me red and blue is not aesthetic. True. Yeah, I agree, but in this modern day.
Al: I I mean, at the time, it was amazing, right? That that that it ran like there are so
Al: many bugs with it. It's it's a miracle that I game works at all. But in terms of how it looks,
Al: I like to add the--.
Al: I'm so glad we're back to people complaining about how the game looks rather than people complaining about how the game runs terribly. I'm just so glad we're back.
Al: I work back the-- the-- the, um, sword and shield day days. People hate how the game looks, but it runs well. Yay. We're back to status for it with what?
Aislinn: Yeah! Yeah!
Aislinn: Yeah, we're back to equilibrium.
Al: I could time.
Al: I can I go I like I get why people care I do not care. Let's keep going.
Aislinn: Oh man.
Al: All right.
Al: Joining me for this fun discussion.
Al: Why would like.
Al: Of course, not even game.
Al: I still say which one it was.
Al: But you may be both.
Al: Depending on where you look at this episode and in our back end for where I put the shorts and stuff.
Al: or not and stuff. Sometimes it's called "Why do we let?"
Al: like farming games, sometimes it's cottagecore.
Al: I think maybe on one I actually wrote a farming/cottagecore, I lose track, but I could not decide
Aislinn: I I think I remember I like that the Google Drive folder is just why we like them
Al: what the name of this episode was.
Al: Yeah, I'd given up by that point.
Aislinn: that should be the title of just this episode alone it's just why we like them that's it
Al: Right. Wait, like.
Al: Oh, dear.
Aislinn: no context why we like them
Al: Well, anyway, thank you for joining me.
Al: Uh, is there anything you would like to share with?
Aislinn: Um, well first of all, thank you again for having me. This was a fun discussion and I have learned many wonderful things about myself and you and farming slash cottage core games at a whole as a whole, um, as for me, I guess you can find me just about anywhere as per usual.
Aislinn: Um, I should have, after this episode comes out, our next episode.
Aislinn: A episode of Moo and Coo, our podcast out, um, spoilers for what we're talking about. I don't have them because we were supposed to have one guest and scheduling fell through then we were supposed to have another guest and then scheduling fell through. So now it's just going to be Chris and I and we have no idea what to talk about. So, stay tuned.
Aislinn: But otherwise, you can find me at some point on Twitch playing.
Aislinn: Legends EA at the moment and hopefully outer wilds again. Ais trainer and you can find me on all all other socials when I am off of my social media hiatus at the same place.
Aislinn: I am just really trying to avoid spoilers because the internet sucks and I'm a really slow gamer and spoilers are everywhere so I'm just taking a break from social media as a whole for now.
Al: The only thing I've had spoil farming is a few of the mega-designs, but not all of them.
Aislinn: Yeah, me too, thankfully, but it's the one, one of them that I got spoiled before was like one of my favorites that I was curious to see.
Al: - Yes, same, same.
Al: [laughs]
Aislinn: So I, but I haven't seen it in motion yet so I'm like, hoping that will be enjoyable if anything, but I've seen like the artwork for it and I'm like, aha.
Al: All right, you can find the podcast on Tumblr and blue sky at THS pod, you can send us feedback
Al: on our website harvestseason.club, tell us why you like farming or cottagecore games if we've missed
Al: something that you like about them, tell us what that is. You also on the website you can find
Al: links to everything including a link to our patreon patreon.com/thspod where you can support the
Al: podcast, get access to our slack and talk to
Al: us about stuff and see Kevin's live blog that he does of most of the episodes, for some
Aislinn: It's become a staple within a slack now.
Al: reason. We love it. You also get access to our bonus podcast episodes. We will probably
Aislinn: Everyone has their own now too.
Aislinn: Everyone adds, regardless of who's posting it, it's the Kevin thread.
Aislinn: It's so cute. I love it.
Al: have something up soon. But I'm not sure what. I've got a bunch of maybe episodes.
Al: I've not actually done any of them. So we'll have some soon. I think that's everything.
Aislinn: [laughing]
Al: Thank you again for joining me. Thank you, listeners, for listening. And until next time,
Aislinn: - Thank you for having me.
Aislinn: Have a good harvest one.
Al: have a good harvest.
Theme Tune: The Harvest Season is created by Alma Henry, with support from our patrons, including our
Theme Tune: pro farmers, Kevin Stewart and Alisa.
Theme Tune: Our art is done by Micah the Brave and our music is done by Nick Burtis.
Theme Tune: Feel free to visit our website, harvestseason.club for show notes and links to things we discussed
Theme Tune: in this episode.
Al: All right. Finally, we have Dreamlight, Disney, Disney, Dreamlight Valley. They have announced
Al: the hunting floating festival, the hot, sorry the haunted, flusting fl-
Aislinn: same mood.